README.md, before:

This is Yaws, a webserver for dynamic content written in Erlang.

[![Travis build Status](https://travis-ci.org/klacke/yaws.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/klacke/yaws)

Prepare build
-------------

Get and install an Erlang system (http://www.erlang.org).

**To compile Yaws, Erlang/OTP 21.3 or higher is required.**

If you've cloned the source from github and you want to build using autotools,
note there is no ./configure script in the source, so create one:

    $> autoreconf -fi

Install build dependencies. Required packages to compile Yaws are (based on
debian packages):

* build-essential
* autoconf/automake/libtool
* erlang - Required apps:
 * erlang-{kernel/stdlib/sasl/erts}
 * erlang-compiler
 * erlang-crypto
 * erlang-xmerl
* libpam0g-dev

To build the documentation (optional), you also need to install:

* texlive-latex-base
* texlive-latex-recommended
* texlive-fonts-recommended
* texlive-font-utils
* texlive-extra-utils
* ghostscript

On Ubuntu/debian this is pretty much equal to:

    $> apt-get build-dep yaws

On MacOS and OS X, be sure the necessary Xcode command-line tools and
development environment are set up correctly by running the following
command:

    xcode-select --install

Finally, to run the testsuites, yaws need to install:

* git
* wget
* curl
* erlang-eunit
* erlang-inets
* erlang-mnesia
* erlang-ssl
* cadaver


Build
-----

You can build using rebar:

    $> rebar get-deps compile

or via autotools:

    $> ./configure --prefix=/usr/local

If using rebar, you'll get a "local installation" with Yaws script in ./bin
and the Yaws configuration file in ./etc/yaws.

If using autotools, the build will be configured by default for installation
under /usr/local. For more information about installation directories and
other supported options, see the configure help. Useful options are:

    --with-defaultcharset=CHARSET specify default charset, i.e UTF-8
    --with-extrainclude=DIR       dir to include if e.g. pam is installed in some odd place
    --with-erlang=PREFIX          prefix where Erlang is installed (optional)

Note to packagers (rpm, deb ...) All install targets support the DESTDIR
variable. Thus, if we do

    $> ./configure --prefix=/usr; make

we can subsequently do:

    $> make install DESTDIR=/foo/bar

All Yaws files will be installed under DESTDIR, but all code will assume Yaws
should be installed under /usr.

Main make targets:

* all           : compile Yaws
* debug         : compile Yaws with debug flags
* clean         : remove files produced by all or debug target
* install       : do a proper install of Yaws
* doc or docs   : build the documentation
* check or test : launch tests
* cleantest     : remove files produced by check target
* dialyzer      : run dialyzer on Yaws
* mkinstaller   : build an installer for windows
* cleaninstaller: remove files produced by mkinstaller target
* apps          : compile Yaws applications (chat,mail,wiki,yapp)
* cleanapps     : remove files produced by apps target
* installapps   : install Yaws applications
* fullinstall   : install + installapps
* fullclean     : clean + cleantest + cleanapps + cleaninstaller


Test your build
---------------

With autotools, to test the build, you should install it somewhere:

    $> ./configure --prefix=$PWD/_inst && make install
    $> $PWD/_inst/bin/yaws -i

If you used rebar to compile Yaws, you can alternatively start Yaws with

    $> ./bin/yaws -i

Either approach will start a webserver at http://0.0.0.0:8000
Terminate through ^C, or ^G followed by q, or

    > init:stop()

NOTE: If you've used rebar to build the system, none of the following
directions apply. With rebar only "local installations" are supported.


Install and run
---------------

NOTE: following commands may require root privileges, depending of the
installation prefix.

Just run:

    $> make install

Then, to run Yaws, you should use its script:

    $> ${bindir}/yaws -i

This starts an interactive system.

With the default yaws.conf file, this will create a webserver at
http://${host} and one at https://${host}.

You can adapt Yaws configuration by editing '${sysconfig}/yaws/yaws.conf'.


Daemonize Yaws
--------------

Start it using '--daemon' and '--heart' options:

    $> ${bindir}/yaws --daemon --heart

This will start a daemon (--daemon) which will be autorestarted when/if it
crashes or hangs (--heart).
Also, for most unices, we create proper start scripts in ${sysconfdir}/init.d

Example: Here is how I compile/start the yaws system that runs at
http://yaws.hyber.org (Ubuntu server system)

    $> autoreconf -fi
    $> ./configure --sysconfdir=/etc
    $> make && make install
    $> /etc/init.d/yaws start


Security Policy
---------------

To report security vulnerabilities or other security-related issues,
please refer to the [Yaws security policy](SECURITY.md).

Commit message:

Document reproducible builds of YAWS
Document how to enable reproducible builds (export environment variables
YAWS_DETERMINISTIC_BUILD and SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH when building) and what
that entails for the build artefacts. Also note that various paths are
included in generated files i.e. installation prefix affects build
artefacts, which can be mitigated by using DESTDIR.

SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH is understood by pdflatex, thus setting it to the same
unix timestamp across builds will make yaws.pdf build determenistically.
However, latex/dvips does not understand SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH, thus the
generated date in the DVIPSSource comment is generated from
SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH if set.

Fixes #446

README.md, after:

This is Yaws, a webserver for dynamic content written in Erlang.

[![Travis build Status](https://travis-ci.org/klacke/yaws.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/klacke/yaws)

Prepare build
-------------

Get and install an Erlang system (http://www.erlang.org).

**To compile Yaws, Erlang/OTP 21.3 or higher is required.**

If you've cloned the source from github and you want to build using autotools,
note there is no ./configure script in the source, so create one:

    $> autoreconf -fi

Install build dependencies. Required packages to compile Yaws are (based on
debian packages):

* build-essential
* autoconf/automake/libtool
* erlang - Required apps:
 * erlang-{kernel/stdlib/sasl/erts}
 * erlang-compiler
 * erlang-crypto
 * erlang-xmerl
* libpam0g-dev

To build the documentation (optional), you also need to install:

* texlive-latex-base
* texlive-latex-recommended
* texlive-fonts-recommended
* texlive-font-utils
* texlive-extra-utils
* ghostscript

On Ubuntu/debian this is pretty much equal to:

    $> apt-get build-dep yaws

On MacOS and OS X, be sure the necessary Xcode command-line tools and
development environment are set up correctly by running the following
command:

    xcode-select --install

Finally, to run the testsuites, yaws need to install:

* git
* wget
* curl
* erlang-eunit
* erlang-inets
* erlang-mnesia
* erlang-ssl
* cadaver


Build
-----

You can build using rebar:

    $> rebar get-deps compile

or via autotools:

    $> ./configure --prefix=/usr/local

If using rebar, you'll get a "local installation" with Yaws script in ./bin
and the Yaws configuration file in ./etc/yaws.

If using autotools, the build will be configured by default for installation
under /usr/local. For more information about installation directories and
other supported options, see the configure help. Useful options are:

    --with-defaultcharset=CHARSET specify default charset, i.e UTF-8
    --with-extrainclude=DIR       dir to include if e.g. pam is installed in some odd place
    --with-erlang=PREFIX          prefix where Erlang is installed (optional)

Note to packagers (rpm, deb ...) All install targets support the DESTDIR
variable. Thus, if we do

    $> ./configure --prefix=/usr; make

we can subsequently do:

    $> make install DESTDIR=/foo/bar

All Yaws files will be installed under DESTDIR, but all code will assume Yaws
should be installed under /usr.

Main make targets:

* all           : compile Yaws
* debug         : compile Yaws with debug flags
* clean         : remove files produced by all or debug target
* install       : do a proper install of Yaws
* doc or docs   : build the documentation
* check or test : launch tests
* cleantest     : remove files produced by check target
* dialyzer      : run dialyzer on Yaws
* mkinstaller   : build an installer for windows
* cleaninstaller: remove files produced by mkinstaller target
* apps          : compile Yaws applications (chat,mail,wiki,yapp)
* cleanapps     : remove files produced by apps target
* installapps   : install Yaws applications
* fullinstall   : install + installapps
* fullclean     : clean + cleantest + cleanapps + cleaninstaller


Reproducible builds
-------------------

It is possible to build deterministically, thus enabling reproducible builds
of YAWS.

A determenistic build is enabled by setting the following environment
variables when building

    $> export YAWS_DETERMINISTIC_BUILD=true # set to any value will enable
    $> export SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH=$known_unix_timestamp
    $> make all doc

The above environment variables will generate a deterministic
`yaws_generated.beam` and sets e.g. creation date in `yaws.ps` and
`yaws.pdf` from the value of `$SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH`.

Note that various paths in configuration files, templates, examples etc, are
generated from the configured installation prefix config files; thus they
will vary if the installation prefix is different across builds. This can be
mitigated by using DESTDIR when installing, see the Build section above.


Test your build
---------------

With autotools, to test the build, you should install it somewhere:

    $> ./configure --prefix=$PWD/_inst && make install
    $> $PWD/_inst/bin/yaws -i

If you used rebar to compile Yaws, you can alternatively start Yaws with

    $> ./bin/yaws -i

Either approach will start a webserver at http://0.0.0.0:8000
Terminate through ^C, or ^G followed by q, or

    > init:stop()

NOTE: If you've used rebar to build the system, none of the following
directions apply. With rebar only "local installations" are supported.


Install and run
---------------

NOTE: following commands may require root privileges, depending of the
installation prefix.

Just run:

    $> make install

Then, to run Yaws, you should use its script:

    $> ${bindir}/yaws -i

This starts an interactive system.

With the default yaws.conf file, this will create a webserver at
http://${host} and one at https://${host}.

You can adapt Yaws configuration by editing '${sysconfig}/yaws/yaws.conf'.


Daemonize Yaws
--------------

Start it using '--daemon' and '--heart' options:

    $> ${bindir}/yaws --daemon --heart

This will start a daemon (--daemon) which will be autorestarted when/if it
crashes or hangs (--heart).
Also, for most unices, we create proper start scripts in ${sysconfdir}/init.d

Example: Here is how I compile/start the yaws system that runs at
http://yaws.hyber.org (Ubuntu server system)

    $> autoreconf -fi
    $> ./configure --sysconfdir=/etc
    $> make && make install
    $> /etc/init.d/yaws start


Security Policy
---------------

To report security vulnerabilities or other security-related issues,
please refer to the [Yaws security policy](SECURITY.md).
